---
title: "CyberForce 2021 - Analyze"
categories:
  - CyberForce
tags:
  - CyberForce
  - CyberForce-2021
  - CyberForce Adventurer
---

## Analyze
One of the categories in the Department of Energy's CyberForce Program - Conquer the Hill: Adventurer Edition 2021

{% include toc %}

### Analyze: Anomaly 1 (20pts)
During your lunch break, you decide to investigate your team to ensure they are staying on task. Running a simple task over your network to obtain the .pcap file below, you see your employees have all been distracted by the same webpage. What website should you consider blocking in the future?

Syntax hint: answer is not case sensitive, no spaces include '.com' in your answer
Ans: `coolmathgames.com`

### Analyze: Anomaly 15 (20pts)
As a member of the cyber team at your organization, you have been asked to analyze the attached piece of malware. Based on the  vector through which this malware is captured, there is reason to believe the file contains something of a digital tag or signature of the malware author, and it is up to you to perform rudimentary hex analysis (or another tool) of the binary to find it.

syntax hint: no spaces

Ans: `fakelatin`

### Analyze: Anomaly 28 (20pts)
Assess the threat intelligence brief located in the folder attached with the question and identify the name of the encoded WIN API

syntax hint: answer is not case sensitive, no spaces

Ans: `FervencyPoseuseChitchat`

### Analyze: Anomaly 29 (20pts)
Based off of the threat intel report from Anomaly 28, from which IP do the macros download the Sekur payload ? 
For your answer, please only input the first 5 digits of the IP - ex: 111.11 

Ans: `154.16`

### Analyze: Anomaly 73 (20pts)
This voluntary Framework has five functions: Identify, Protect, Respond, Recover, and what?

Syntax hint: answer is not case sensitive, no spaces, one word answer
Ans: `Detect`

### Analyze: Anomaly 87 (20pts)
Public key encryption uses how many keys? 

Syntax hint: Give answer in numerical form

Ans: `2`

### Analyze: Anomaly 91 (20pts)
What is the name of an attack where a device is flooded with packets with all flags set?

Syntax hint: answer is not case sensitive, do not include "attack" in your answer

### Analyze: Anomaly 94 (20pts)
What well-known computer virus exploited vulnerabilities present in Windows Explorer icon files?

Syntax: answer is not case sensitive

Ans: `Stuxnet`

### Analyze: Anomaly 72 (30pts)
This main regulation was first enacted in 1996 and contains five titles, with the second title known as the Administrative Simplification. It required national standards for electronic health care transactions as well as national identifiers for the providers, insurance plans, and employers. Name this legislation in full.

Do not include the word "the" in your answer, and please include the year: e.g.,' ______________ of 1901'

Ans: `Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996`

### Analyze: Anomaly 9 (50pts)
One of your company’s wind turbines has been failing intermittently.  The engineer assigned to the ticket thinks the controller might have been compromised and has asked you to help investigate.  She has taken an image of the filesystem from the main controller.  Can you figure out what’s wrong?

syntax hint: answer is a string
Ans: `642e92efb79421734881b53e1e1b18b6`

### Analyze: Anomaly 21 (50pts)
You are a member of the network security team at a major healthcare provider in north east region of the United States. A joint cybersecurity advisory coauthored by the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA), the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), and the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) was recently put out detailing a ransomware campaign targeting the public health sector. 

Your task is see if there any signs in your network of potential compromise related to this ransomware attack. You should review the threat intel report and see if it provides any indicators of compromise that you could use in conjunction with the DNS request logs you have been provided. 

Your answer should identify the number of unique computers in your network that show signs of being infected with the ransomware identified in the intelligence report. 

Syntax hint: this answer is in number format 

### Analyze: Anomaly 70 (100pts)
Imagine you are a Target Network Analyst for your company.  Your responsibilities include:
Conducts advanced analysis of collection and open-source data to ensure target continuity; to profile targets and their activities; and develop techniques to gain more target information. Determines how targets communicate, move, operate and live based on knowledge of target technologies, digital networks, and the applications on them. [NIST Guidelines Target Network Analyst AN-TGT-002]

For this challenge you are given an exported mySQL database table from a target of interest that contains employee arrival and departure times recorded in UTC.  Assuming a normal workday is 8:00am to 4:30pm, use these times to determine what time zone the company is located in. 

Syntax hint: The answer is the three-character time zone.  